In this video we're going to
create some different states for
our cameras,
based upon the player state animation.
So as we run, the camera might
move out a In a little bit and
as we climb up the ladder it
might move out a little bit more.
And then we stand still and
the camera slowly zooms back in so
we can see what's going on.
So let's set up some different
cameras based up the players state.
The first thing we need to do is hop up
the cinema machine at the top here and
to create a state driven camera.
This is now going to be
the parent of our cameras.
I'm going to drag it underneath
the main cameras but
then put underneath that
our virtual camera.
So, here is our new order of events,
camera main,
camera, at the same level main camera and
our new state driven camera,
a little bit of wonky word in here.
I'll call this.
Our State Driven Camera just like that and
we tend not to mush it all together so
I'm gonna just put spaces in there so
State Driven Camera.
This in a way is going to operate and
drive and control all of our cameras.
Underneath that it's brought
in a Virtual Camera.
Sorry we've dragged in our Virtual Camera
and brought in a Cm vCam 1,
with the State Driven Camera.
I'm gonna delete that just for now so
that we can be really
clear on what we're doing.
I'm gonna duplicate my camera, my virtual
camera as opposed to using the one that
came in with the state driven camera.
Okay, so
there we've got our structure just there.
And if we look at our virtual camera,
it's the same old virtual
camera that we've had before.
If you clicked on state driven camera,
it now has under here virtual camera
children and the critical point is,
any cameras that we want the state driven
camera to be controlling have
to be childed to that camera.
And we can see in here, Virtual Camera,
which is our virtual camera.
Okay, so that's a lot of organizing.
Hopefully that made sense in terms of our
relationship and our hierarchy there.
So we do have our virtual
camera that we've had before.
If we click play then it's the only
camera that we have at the moment so
it's gonna do its normal thing and
run around as we have been doing.
So, we're not gonna lose anything if
we just wanna stop at that point,
that's all well and
[INAUDIBLE] and good but
we aren't going to go further than that,
we're gonna duplicate our virtual camera,
it will be now be called virtual camera
one, the first one, I think I'll rename to
virtual camera run and the second,
I will rename to virtual camera idle.
Idle.
And then,
if we clock on the state driven camera,
you can see we've got these
two cameras down here.
Virtual camera children,
we've got our run and our idle.
We need to set up some states just a quick
reminder of the states that we're dealing
with, if you click on your animator and
then over on animations on the player
animator controller these are the states
its referring to that we're gonna be
using to drive the different cameras.
Currently we've got climbing and running,
in the future we might have dying as well.
So that's what we're talking about,
so back in the state during camera,
we need to tell it that that's
the animator we're interested in.
So, if you click on animated target here
non animator, click on that you can see we
got to get one option because that's
the only animator we've got it present
which is the player.
Now the player's state machine
is gonna be available to us
within the state driven camera.
When we click on the plus
button here you see State.
The list is empty.
Click on the plus button.
New State.
And then where we have default, we can
choose any of the states that we have in
our state machine, so idling,
running and climbing.
We're gonna start with idling.
And then the camera that our attach
to that is our virtual camera idle.
And then I'll add another state.
And that would be for running and
we will attach our virtual camera run.
One thing that I found is a little buggy
in this version of center machine,
I'm gonna have a look at is my idol
is still orthographic in size and
my run is still orthographic.
Sometimes for some reasons it changes to
field of view as if it's now going to 3D
camera, I found the only solution to that
is deleting and reduplicating the camera.
But keep your eye on that.
Sometimes that can come and get makes
a little bit difficult to do the amount of
the zoom in that you wanna
have on your camera.
So speaking of zoom in, we've got out idle
it's still a little bit of design here.
How do we want things to work
when our character is running,
do we want the camera to zoom in a little
bit, to make a little bit tighter?
More interesting or wanna to zoom out and
make a little bit more free.
Hm.
Ain't much of a muchness, mostly we're
doing it at the moment for flavour,
just to make our game feel a bit more
dynamic as opposed to doing it for
gameplay reasons where we want the player
to see more or see less of the screen.
So I think if were idling,
I think I want it to just.
pop in a little bit.
If we're running a think I want it
to come out to the full extent.
So that means my idle camera I'm
gonna take from seven to six.
I'll make it reasonably pronounced, for
the sake of you being able
to see what I'm doing here.
Make it five, so
I'm gonna get super pronounced.
I think it's gonna be a lot too harsh.
But we'll make it pronounced so
we can see what's going on here.
And then back to our state driven
camera you can see that we've got our
two states in here hooked up,
If we hit play.
Now when we are idling,
the camera should be in close.
When we run, the camera zooms out.
And you can see the blend
between the two is pretty quick.
I mean it's awesome that we're
able to do that so quickly.
You might like that amount of bouncing.
I think that would make me
pretty seasick after a while.
That's fine.
I've done it a bit more extreme.
as I was saying.
Now, but if the blending is much too fast,
there's a way that we can address that.
If you look at custom blends.
Click create asset.
It'll ask us if where we want to store it.
I'm going to put this interesting,
is this an animation?
This is a camera.
I will put this in
animation I think cuz it
feels like an animation as a blend
state driven camera blends.
Now we have our list here is empty, if
you click plus under this customs blends.
We can say,
we are going from something to something.
Select go from any camera into idle,
could do a particular type of blend.
We'll say from Idle to Run.
We can change the style of Easing In and
Out.
We can change the time.
So our default Ease In and Out time here.
For everything is 0.5.
So if I change this to say five.
Then every single camera transition
is going to take that five seconds.
So run five and eventually it
gets to where it wants to and
fires slowly back in again.
Which is cool and we can leave it at that.
We don't even need to
create our custom blends.
But if we wanna have a different
blend per camera change,
then we need to have our
custom blends just here.
So we are gonna do that.
We'll have our first camera and
we'll set up our second.
Blends, so
the first blend was from idle to run and
our next is going to be from run to idle,
cuz they're our only states at the moment.
And then the amount of time we want will,
from idle to run, I think we want
that to happen pretty quickly.
So I'll put this down to 1.
And then from run back to auto,
that's more of a relaxed moment.
We'll have this at 3.
Again this is for security purposes,
we can turn this once we've
got more our game available.
As we run it kinda goes to this
fuller view, running, running and
if I stop than it stops.
Okay, cool.
The other thing we can do in
addition to this is we can
ask the camera to wait
before going into the blend.
And we do that down here in our state.
So before we go into our idling,
we can wait a whole second and
before we go into running,
we can say, no wait at all.
And then what happens here is we run,
it goes straight into our full of view,
this might be our default camera and
then if I stop for a bit it waits
at a while then it zooms in.
I think that's a nice touch just to show
the player that the world is dynamic,
they can't just we haven't forgotten
about if they stopped running.
And I would probably make that
ease a little bit longer.
So it's a bit more of a slow
dramatic you're running.
You're playing the game.
You're doing stuff.
Maybe you're stopping here,
looking at something and
it just does a little bit of
zooming in on the player,
little bit of increased tension
at that moment for the game.
Okay so they're the main points
the custom blends the states and
setting up the cameras.
So the challenge I've got for
you in this video is add a Ladder Camera.
That's an additional state for the camera.
When we're climbing ladders I recommend
duplicating one of the cameras
we've got at the moment and using that.
And then to make sure
that the blending to and
from the camera is how you would like it
to be when you are climbing the ladder.
You get the right sort of framing and
you get the right in and
out and it's not bouncing too much.
So, pause the video and set yourself
up an extra space for climbing ladders.
Okay, welcome back.
I'm going to duplicate the Idle and
rename that from Idle to
Climb as our virtual camera climb.
And then underneath our state
driven camera here it's
already been in place
because it's childhood.
So it already knows its child in terms
of states we need to say a new state.
This state is climbing.
We've already set up,
in our state machine down here, climbing.
And we're using the virtual camera climb.
Of course, let me just check that
it hasn't done anything strange.
No, It's still on the right
sort of orthographic lens here.
And I think just, again, for illustrative
purposes, let's make he camera climb,
do we want it to move out so
you can see more of the world, so
it's more dramatic or move in so it's
more tense as you are climbing a ladder.
Probably, for now,
I'm going to move it out a little bit.
Just so you see a bit more of the world.
A little bit more of that
vertico feeling perhaps.
Vetico?
I think it is vertigo.
Vertigo, verti-come, verti-stay, vertigo.
Here we are, now what we need to do is
to back to our state driven camera,
we need to make sure that
we have our transition.
We will say from any camera,
it's probably gonna be from run but
from any camera into climb.
We wanted to be reasonably
snappy to see how that feels.
And we can change these things in here.
Ease in, ease out, et cetera.
You can play around with that
to see the different feel of it.
Generally we're just doing the ease in and
the ease out and we also want from
the climb back out to the any camera.
I think it's a good way to do this and you
can do that for any of your states just
any state in the run, it does particular
thing, any state into the idle this thing.
That's a handy way to set it out without
getting a thousand different states as
thousand different blends as we
get more states in there and
then the amount of time, we'll do it the
same again and the with the wait time we
won't have any wait time, it'll just
be zing and straight in and out.
So that should be the camera
being a little bit further out
as we jump onto our ladder so it starts
off in idle and then as we climb, yet
it brings the camera out a little bit.
So I think all of my values
are a little bit too extreme.
It's probably gonna annoy the player
if things are moving around that much.
But I wanted to have it with
that sort of extreme so
that you can see what's going
on in our video here side.
Tune to more down a little bit so
my size of internet is not quite so much.
And there's one last thing I wanted
to do in this video to show you,
okay, I think it's pretty cool.
If you click on one of your cameras,
I will click on Run and
then scroll down,
I'd say use this one with care.
With much care but we're setting
ourselves up a shake cam which,
man, so many uses for it.
For now we're just gonna use it as part
of the state driven camera mechanism.
But we can use it in other ways in
the future if you want to trigger
it in other ways.
But, for now, we have a look.
If you scroll down on one of your cameras,
I'm going to use run, down to noise.
We'll set up basic multi channel
perlin and then noise profile,
well I'll put this in vibration.
Amplitude gain done have this [INAUDIBLE]
.2 and then frequency gain 1.
So, amplitude is how far it goes and
frequency is how quickly it does it.
You click on play,
as we run our camera should shake.
So, but you can see our camera,
is going crazy in our scene view here.
It's kinda cool.
It gives a little bit of
interesting wobble as we run along.
So that's something that you can
play around with to get a good feel.
It's little bit dynamic.
Use this with caution,
don't go crazy with it I don't think.
And probably don't have
you seen over there,
it's super distracting
when you see it like that.
But if we would to put
the amplitude out further and
the frequency up a bunch that as we run
the whole cameras gonna be on crazy.
So I'm sure you can think of some really
cool uses for that not just in our state
cuz at the moment we're gonna
pause this that is not crazy,
so in our current we're just using
a baseball with what the player does.
But in the future if
you had to play a die,
that would be a great time
to do a camera shake.
I'm ready to set up now so when we do
have a dying state, it will be easy for
us to remember to put it in.
But for the moment I'm going to
have it super subtle just so
there's some little bit of movement there
is the player is running along just to
give it a little bit of dynamic balance,
but that's a really cool tool for
you to play around with in your own game.
>> So there we have it state based and
animation state based
animations down here.
Step by camera driven by
the player's animation state,
where we can have zoom in's and
zoom out's and a little bit of noise
a whole bunch of cool things based upon
what the player is up to in the game.
So, hopefully you find that useful and
hopefully you can retrofit that
to some of the past projects
that we've been working on.
I think in Rush this sort
of thing will be fantastic
to add through out our game back in Rush.
So well done in this video and
I will see you in the next lecture.